Paragraph typing link: https://unicodepoint.net/typing/mock-test/english-19

Discipline is of paramount importance in a civilized society. And

the more civilised a nation. The more disciplined are the people of

that nation. It is easy to form an idea of people from the manner in

which they give orders to their subordinates. Those unaccustomed

to position of authority usually issue "commands" to

unico
dep

oin
t.n

et their juniors in

the manner of a drill-sergeant on the parade ground. On the other

hand, those who have long experience in a position of authority

are tactful enough to know that the juniors are human, imbued

With as much dignity, pride, self-respect and sensitivity as

themselves, if not more. I Discipline is of paramount importance in

a civilized society. And the more civilised a nation. the more

disciplined are the people of that nation. It is easy to form an idea

of people from the manner in which they give orders to their

subordinates. Those unaccustomed to position of authority usually

issue "commands" to their juniors in the manner of a drill-sergeant

on the parade ground. On the other hand, those who have long

experience in a position of authority are tactful enough to know

that the juniors are human, imbued With as much dignity, pride,

self-respect and sensitivity as themselves, if not more. The mere

fact that somebody is in a junior position does not necessarily

Page 1/4



Paragraph typing link: https://unicodepoint.net/typing/mock-test/english-19

imply that he is a contemptible creature, unfit to0be treated as a

human. We cannot buy respect and admiration in the same way as

we buy a suit of clothes. Respect and admiration have to be

earned. At the same time, we cannot earn respect and admiration

unless we can prove to our juniors that we are def

unico
dep

oin
t.n

etinitely superior

to time in talent, intellect and executive ability. Those who are

appointed in senior position as a result of nepotism, favouritism or

influence are not competent enough to prove their efficiency in

those positions & do not command the respect of their juniors. It is

pertinent to note that seniors should never discomfit juniors in the

presence of strangers, howsoever great the provocation. On the

other hand, a few words of approbation, when deserved double in

value when ex- pressed in the presence of others. It is also worth

keeping in mind that while at work, personal relationships should

be forgotten and thee strictest possible discipline enforced. In the

process, a father may have to censure his son; a husband may

have to reprove his wife; brother may have to admonish brother;

and even a bosom friend may have to be put on the carpet. An

executive cannot afford to be lax. He should not also be deferential

to a junior who may even be his social superior. Seniority does not

Page 2/4



Paragraph typing link: https://unicodepoint.net/typing/mock-test/english-19

entitle anybody to be rude to a junior. If orders cannot be given in

such a manner as can be carried out efficiently and quickly, the

fault clearly lies with their giver and not their taker. lf person in

superior or senior position, be very very careful to keep in mind all

the above points, he may be- come very successful

unico
dep

oin
t.n

et in his dealings

with the staff and can elevate his personality and working

tactfulness. It is apt to call such an officer a disciplined citizen. He

mere fact that somebody is in a junior position does not

necessarily imply that he is a contemptible creature, unfit to0be

treated as a human. We cannot buy respect and admiration in the

same way as we buy a suit of clothes. Respect and admiration

have to be earned. At the same time, we cannot earn respect and

admiration unless we can prove to our juniors that we are definitely

superior to item in talent, intellect and executive ability. Those who

are appointed in senior position as a result of nepotism,

favouritism or influence are not competent enough to prove their

efficiency in those positions & do not command the respect of their

juniors. It is pertinent to note that seniors should never discomfit

juniors in the presence of strangers, howsoever great the

provocation. On the other hand, a few words of approbation, when

Page 3/4



Paragraph typing link: https://unicodepoint.net/typing/mock-test/english-19

deserved double in value when ex- pressed in the presence of

others. It is also worth keeping in mind that while at work, personal

relationships should be forgotten and thee strictest possible

discipline enforced. In the process, a father may have to censure

his son; a husband may have to reprove his wife

unico
dep

oin
t.n

et; brother may

have to admonish brother; and even a bosom friend may have to

be put on the carpet. An executive cannot afford to be lax. He

should not also be deferential to a junior who may even be his

social superior. Seniority does not entitle anybody to be rude to a

junior. If orders cannot be given in such a manner as can be

carried out efficiently and quickly, the fault clearly lies with their

giver and not their taker. lf person in superior or senior position, be

very careful to keep in mind all the above points, he may be- come

very successf l in his dealings with the staff and can elevate his

personality and working tactfulness. It is apt to call such an officer

a disciplined citizen.

Page 4/4