Paragraph typing link: https://unicodepoint.net/typing/mock-test/english-16

At first the professor scowled with concern. But then he said, that's

all right. Run to my house. Tell my wife to give you one of my

shirts. "Mrs. Esputa quickly fetched one of her husband's white

shirts. But when Philip put it on, she began to exclaim, "Oh, dear!

Gracious!" The shirt was so large that Philip was a

unico
dep

oin
t.n

etlmost lost in it.

Hastily Mrs. Esputa found a box of pins. In a twinkling, her nimble

fingers pinned enough tucks in the shirt to make it fit Philip. They

both heaved a big sigh of relief when the job was finished. Then,

free from anxiety, Philip hurried back to the school. The concert

finally began, and soon it was time for Philip's also. Stood up,

placed the violin under his chin, and raised his bow. With horror he

felt a pin pulling loose in the back of his shirt. But he recalled how

many pins had been inserted in the shirt and thought, "Losing one

won't matter. "Philip started to play. At first his right arm moved

back and forth slowly, then more swiftly. Before long the pins that

were holding his collar pulled out, The loose, large shirt collar

began to creep up the back of Philip's head. Then the unruly

sleeves grew looser and longer. Suddenly the shirt fell away from

his neck. The audience began to laugh. In embarrassed confusion,

Philip forgot what he was playing and stopped completely. The

Page 1/2



Paragraph typing link: https://unicodepoint.net/typing/mock-test/english-16

disaster so upset him that he rushed off the stage and sulked in a

dark corner. Fighting back tears, he mumbled gloomily, "I wish I

were dead Refreshments were served after the concert, but Philip

was too busy to have any. He mingled with the crowd as quickly as

he could, hoping to avoid Mr. Esputa. After a wistful

unico
dep

oin
t.n

et look at the ice

cream, Phillip was about to slink out when a booming voice behind

him scoffed, "Well, Philip, you made a nice mess of it. " Philip

turned and found himself face to face with his glowering teacher.

With no sympathy for poor Philip, Mr. Esputa continued

unreasonably, "No refreshments for you! You shouldn't have spent

the day playing ball. You should have been preparing for the

important work of the evening. You ought to be ashamed! MP

hung his head, sighed heavily, and trudged home. The incident at

Such an impression on him that he always remembered it. He

never gain tried to mix work and play.

Page 2/2