National Conference on Jal Jeevan Mission and
Swachh Bharat Mission-Grameen SBM-(G) Marks Landmark Book Launches and Unveils
Innovative Initiatives
Union Minister of Jal Shakti, Shri Gajendra Singh Shekhawat addresses the national workshop at Lucknow and launches
books on SBM-G and JJM
 Lucknow, Uttar Pradesh witnessed a groundbreaking event on the 16 February 2024, as the first day of the National Conference on Jal Jeevan Mission (JJM) and Swachh Bharat Mission (SBM-(G)) unfolded, presenting a unified approach towards Sustainable Solutions in the Rural WASH Sector. The conference brought together diverse stakeholders from across States/UTs, fostering a confluence of ideas and best practices.
Innovation, collaboration, sustainability, and operation & maintenance of assets took center stage at the conference. The conference also featured digital displays of innovative solutions, technologies, and best practices in the rural WASH sector including SBM-G and JJM that served as an interactive experience offering the attendees a comprehensive look at the advancements and successes achieved across different States/ UTs.The conference was graced by the distinguished presence of Hon’ble Union Minister of Jal Shakti, Shri Gajendra Singh Shekhawat, alongside other eminent personalities including Shri Atul Kumar Tiwari, Secretary – Ministry of Skill Development and Entrepreneurship, GOI, Shri Swatantra Dev Singh, Hon'ble Cabinet Minister Jal Shakti, Uttar Pradesh, MP, Gorakhpur, Shri Ravi Kishan and Smt. Vini Mahajan, Secretary – DDWS. Day one of, the workshop covered a range of topics through panel discussions and interactive sessions. The Honorable Minister of Jal Shakti, Gajendra Singh Shekhawat, launched three impactful books from SBM-G.Shri Swatantra Dev Singh, Hon'ble Cabinet Minister Jal Shakti, Uttar Pradesh highlighted the work being done in the state, thanks to the leadership at the national and state level. The state has witnessed the journey of progress where we have areas such Bundelkhand, Auraiya and other districts that are benefitting from the schemes such as JJM and SBM-G . The change in the leadership, environment has ensured these issues of public health are the forefront and UP’s continues to be the state with the highest no. of FHTC in India.
MP, Gorakhpur, Shri Ravi Kishan, spoke about the sanitation journey of India which he has witnessed being the ‘son of the soil’. He spoke about the concerns of health, hygiene which used to affect children, which has seen a decline thanks to the programs of SBM-G and JJM, which allows people and communities the bare essentials, which were ignored for the longest time. He spoke about the far-flung villages in Gorakhpur which can now boast of having piped connections and functional toilets in schools and households.
Speaking at launch, Union Minister of Jal Shakti, Shri Gajendra Singh Shekhawat spoke about the critical time of this conference which comes when both JJM and SBM-G have reached significant junctions in terms of their outputs and when the focus needs to be on sustainability. He highlighted the work and leadership and guidance of Honorable PM, Shri Narender Modi for not only launching SBM but for leading and guiding it from the front. His approach whilst working on SBM-G was focused on ‘swachhata ka sammaan, sanyuktah ke shakti which was the way for swachhata. He spoke about the work we do in SBM-G and JJM which must be done in mission mode when we are addressing the concern of saturation, however whilst discussing program sustainability, then conferences of this nature become important. The work we do on water is ‘pure’ and the way forward needs to be focused on engaging the public and making it people’s movement which not only enhances program uptake but also program sustainability. He spoke about the transformative missions- JJM & SBM that need to continue the work for Sampooran Swachhta which must look at program convergence; enhanced quality control measures for procurement and implementation; and a passionate commitment from all involved with the work to be the change we want to see in this country.Book Launch Highlights:
1. Swachhata Chronicles: Transformative Tales from India- Vol. II (SBM-G): Swachhata Chronicle Volume 2 is a compilation of best practices from the community where impactful change continues to unfold for SBM-G.These stories transcend statistics, as they showcase the impactful journey of rural sanitation and environmental sustainability, serving as a testament to the ongoing transformation of villages into ODF Plus Model.
2. ‘Swachhata Green Leaf Rating (SGLR)’ System Booklet is a benchmark index encompassing responsible sanitation across SBM-G aspects. The booklet is a guide for safe sanitation practices, encouraging public participation in hospitality facilities.
3. Compendium on Liquid Waste Management (LWM) Technologies: A consolidated booklet of approved technologies, operational guidelines, and successful case studies, providing a knowledge bank for stakeholders on LWM, serving as a guide, fostering a cleaner and healthier rural environment.
The conference provided a unique platform for cross-learning through detailed presentations and digital displays of innovative solutions, technologies, and best practices in the rural WASH sector. As the first day of the conference concluded, it left an indelible mark on the landscape of rural WASH initiatives. The book launches, especially, stand as significant contributions to the ongoing efforts towards sustainable and resilient rural communities.