Paragraph typing link: https://unicodepoint.net/typing/mock-test/english-18

Chandigarh, the city beautiful, is a land-mark in the history of

modern architecture and engineering in India. Inaugurated on April

2, 1952 by Jawahar Lal Nehru, the then Prime Minister of India,

Chandigarh is only 52 years old. Chandigarh was planned by a

world famous French architect, Mr. Le Corbusie

unico
dep

oin
t.n

etr. A team of

architects, Town Planners hailing from England, France and India

worked under the entire supervision of Mr. Le Corbusier. The city

has made great strides during these years. When the project was

started in 1952, many sceptics were inclined to look at the venture

with some disbelief. The city, however, grew and eventually has

become a great educational centre, a focus of composite culture

and numerous other attractions for the general public. The city

today has all the modern amenities available for its citizens. In

educational and medical facilities, Chandigarh excels and today it

is on the top in India. In the country side, almost all the villages in

the jurisdiction of Chandigarh have been covered under the

Habitat Movement." Every village is linked by road. Electricity is

provided almost in all the villages. Piped water supply has been

provided. The youth of Chandigarh has responded creditably to

the call of under-taking new tasks of socio-economic development

Page 1/2



Paragraph typing link: https://unicodepoint.net/typing/mock-test/english-18

for the public living in rural areas. The city of Chandigarh with its

planned construction and its very neat environment is a very good

place from the health point of view to live in. To sustain this happy

situation, the administration maintains an efficient system of health

and medical care. The beds Hospital has been

unico
dep

oin
t.n

et considerably

increased. New strength in the Genera dispensaries are being

added to the old set-up. Many new buildings have been provided

and many new units opened. The P.G.I. in sector 12 has all the

major facilities that should exist in a modern hospital. The

Administration has given equal attention to the other systems of

medicine. There are at present one Homoeopathic and two

Ayurveda Colleges functioning in the city. More are being planned

in the years to come.

Page 2/2