India ranks 38 out of 139 countries on World Bank's Logistics Performance Index Report 2023; India’s rank has improves by sixteen
places from 54 in 2014
PM GatiShakti National Master Plan, Unified Logistics Interface Platform and Logistics Data Bank improve logistics
efficiency and reduce logistics costs
According to the World Bank's 'Logistics Performance Index Report (2023): Connecting to Compete 2023', India ranks 38 out of 139countries. India’s rank has improved by six places from 44 in 2018 andsixteenplacesfrom54in2014.
An Inter-Ministerial dedicated team comprising of Stakeholder Ministries/Departments has been formed. These stakeholder Ministries/Departments focus on targeted action plans with interventions needed to improve logistics performance across all six LPI parameters i.e. Customs, Infrastructure, Ease of arranging shipments, Quality of logistics services, Tracking and Tracing, and Timeliness. In addition, National Committee for Trade Facilitation (NCTF) has a three-tiered structure, constituting of a National Committee on Trade Facilitation, a Steering Committee, and Focused Working Groups (Outreach, Legislative Issues, Time Release Study, Infrastructure Up-gradation, PGA regulation and procedure). Concerning NTFAP 2020-23, 27 action points have been identified under the working group on infrastructure up gradation.
The Hon’ble Prime Minister launched the PM GatiShakti National Master Plan for multimodal connectivity on 13 October 2021 and National Logistics Policy on 17 Sept. 2022, for improving logistics efficiency and reducing logistics costs. Digital reforms such as Unified Logistics Interface Platform (ULIP) for ease of doing business and Logistics Data Bank which has digitized track and trace of 100% containerized EXIM cargo, are presently operational. In addition, the line Ministries are taking various measures, which include:
Expansion of electrification of railway tracks by MoR; Land Ports Authority of India (LPAI) has reduced the average exportandimportreleasetimethroughinterventions;
NLP Marine, which is a single window interface platform for port-related logistics operations, has been launched by MoPSW. In addition, the automation of weighbridges is being undertaken; to name a few key initiatives.This information has been provided by the Union Minister of State for Commerce and Industry, Shri Som Parkash in a written reply in the Lok Sabha today.