Paragraph typing link: https://unicodepoint.net/typing/mock-test/english-20

Do you want to live longer and healthier? Everyone will have

answer in the positive. The research of specialists and nutritionists

reveals that a diet of fish food can help you live longer. Many

experts agree that people of many Countries eating large amounts

of fish tend to have much lower rates of heart dise

unico
dep

oin
t.n

etase than those

where meat-eating predominates. Scientists of the Portland

university of U.S.A. have also found that fish oils in your diet help

fight heart disease. Eskimos and Japanese have much lower

death rates due to heart and blood circulation-related diseases,

because they depend upon fish as major & important part of their

daily diet. Meat and many of the foods we eat have a lot of

saturated fat in them. That is the culprit that slowly but surely clogs

the arteries and failure. But, fish don't have a lot of saturated fat.

They are a very rich source of essential fatty acids coupled with

trace elements like iodine, zinc and manganese that help keep the

arteries and the heart free from clogging deposits. Further

convincing evidence has come from studying the diets of prisoners

of war in the far-East. Their diet of rice and fish may have been

pretty monotonous, but doctors found little evidence of heart

diseases in the prisoners. ears to heart Holland is another country

Page 1/2



Paragraph typing link: https://unicodepoint.net/typing/mock-test/english-20

from where much convincing evidence has been recently coming

which also reinforce the encouraging facts of other experts. Dr.

Jan Wascink of the University of Utrecht, studied the diets of 500

Dutch coastal people over a period of 10 years. During that time

62 persons died from heart attacks, but none of 

unico
dep

oin
t.n

etthem was fish

eater. In subsequent deaths, he found that the death rate was

more than 50 per cent lower among those who ate just an ounce

or so of fish a day, as compared to on-fish eaters. Thus, he

concludes that just Baby eating fish twice a week. You could

considerably lessen the risk of coronary heart disease.

Page 2/2