Paragraph typing link: https://unicodepoint.net/typing/mock-test/english-51

Thomas' keys and drove the brand new Ferrari down into the

bank's underground garage. He assured Thomas that it would be

perfectly safe down there. Thomas then left the bank and caught

his flight to his far away land. Anyway, two weeks went by and

sure enough the bank opened Monday morning t

unico
dep

oin
t.n

eto see Thomas

stroll in and slap the $5000 he had borrowed back on the counter,

plus the interest which was around $15. The loan officer asked for

the car to be brought round to the front of the bank and then asked

Thomas a question. "Our bank prides itself in details and customer

services," he said "and while you were away we did a background

check, it's routine, and discovered you are actually one of the

wealthiest men in America. Why on earth would you need to

borrow $50co, it just doesn't make sense. "Thomas smiled, picked

up the keys from the counter and said, "Can you tell me another

way I could have parked my new Ferrari in the middle of New York

for two weeks, for just $15, and still expect to get it back in top

condition?" With that, Thomas walked out of the door and the loan

officer smiled a bigger smile. Examples of applications of lateral or

nonlinear thinking abound in several fields. In cricket, Kerry Packer

introduced day/night matches and, colourful balls and clothing, a

Page 1/2



Paragraph typing link: https://unicodepoint.net/typing/mock-test/english-51

departure from tradition that became so successful that the whole

world of cricket adopted it. Australia recently experimented with

two different captains for the Test and one-day matches,

nowadays, the T20 matches have become a rage. Lateral Thinking

expert Edward de Bono says with logic, you sta

unico
dep

oin
t.n

etrt with certain

ingredients, just as in chess you start out with given pieces. But

what are those pieces? In most real-life situations, the pieces are

not given, Just assume they are there. We assume certain

perception, concepts and boundaries.  'One is always confusing

conditioned thinking with creative thinking De Bono explains that

lateral thinking is concerned not with playing with the existing

pieces but with seeking to change those very pieces. It is

concerned with the perception part of thinking.

Page 2/2