Component 3: Adoption and expansion of fish and fishery product safety and quality assurance systems:
It is proposed to incentivize fisheries micro and small enterprises to adopt safety and quality assurance systems in marketing of fish and fishery products through provision of performance grants against a set of measurable parameters. This is expected to expand the market for fish and to create and maintain jobs especially for women. This intervention is expected to expand domestic market for fish through increased supply of safe fish and fishery products which will attract new consumers. The scale of performance grants the criteria for providing performance grants are indicated below:
i. Performance Grant for a Microenterprise shall not exceed 25% of the total investment or, Rs.35 lakhs, whichever is lower, for General Category and 35% of total investment or, Rs.45 lakhs, whichever is lower, for SC, ST and Women owned microenterprises.
ii. The maximum size of Performance Grant for a Small enterprise shall not exceed 25% of total investment or Rs.75 lakhs, whichever is lower, for General Category and 35% of total investment or Rs.100 lakhs, whichever is lower, for SC, ST and Women owned small enterprises.
iii. The maximum size of Performance Grant for Village Level Organizations and Federations of SHGs, FFPOs and Cooperatives shall not exceed 35% of total investment or Rs.200 lakhs, whichever is lower.
iv. Total investment for the above purpose shall consist of the expenditure incurred on a) capital investments made on new plant and machinery, b) equipment including technical civil/electrical works and associated infrastructure, c) transport and distribution infrastructure, d) collection and treatment facility for wastes, e) disease management, best management practices, standards, certification and traceability, technology interventions, and such other investments leading to production and supply of safe fish and f) salary bills for additional jobs created in the year of application made under the scheme.
e) Performance Grant disbursement criteria for components 2 and 3 a. Number of jobs created and maintained; including jobs created and maintained for women. For each job created and maintained for a woman an amount of Rs.15,000 per year will be paid, similarly, for each job created and maintained for a man an amount of Rs.10,000 per year will be paid, subject to the limit of 50% of total eligible grant.
b. Investments made in the value chain for increasing the value chain efficiency for component 2 and investment made for adoption and expansion of fish and fishery product safety and quality assurance systems under component 3, performance grant for investments made will be disbursed after completion of the investment subject to the limit of 50% of the eligible grant. f) Component 4: Project management, monitoring and reporting:
Under this component, it is proposed to set up Project Management Units (PMUs) to manage, implement, monitor and evaluate project activities.
Background:
i. Over the period from 2013-14 to 2023-24, significant improvements have been made in fisheries sector in terms of fish production, which increased by 79.66 lakh tonnes; equivalent to increase in 43 years (1971 to 2014), robust growth of Coastal Aquaculture from 2013-14 to 2022-23, shrimp production increased from 3.22 lakh tonnes to —11.84 lakh tonnes (270%), shrimp exports more than doubled from Rs.19,368 crore to Rs.43,135 crore (123%), Employment and Livelihood opportunities to about 63 lakh fishers and fish farmers. The coverage per fisherman under the Group Accident Insurance Scheme (GAIS) has been increased from Rs. 1.00 Lakh to Rs. 5.00 Lakh, benefiting a cumulative total of 267.76 lakh fishers. There has been a notable rise in Livelihood and Nutritional Support for traditional fisher families, increasing from 3,40,397 to 5,97,709. Priority Sector Lending has seen a dedicated allocation of Rs.34,332 crore, compared to no separate allocation in 2013-14. The extension of Kisan Credit Card (KCC) to fisheries in 2019 has resulted in the issuance of 1.8 lakh cards.
ii. Despite significant achievements, there are a number of sectoral challenges felt in the sector. The sector is informal in nature, lack of crop risk mitigation, lack of work based identities, poor access to institutional credit, sub-optimal safety & quality of fish sold by micro & small enterprises. The new-sub-scheme under the existing Pradhan Mantri Matsya Sampada Yojana (PMMSY) aims to address these issues, with total outlay of Rs.6,000 crore.