a. Component 1-A: Formalization of fisheries sector and facilitating access of fisheries microenterprises to Government of India programs for working capital financing: Fisheries, being an unorganised sector needs to be gradually formalized by creation of registry of the fish producers and other supporting actors such as fish workers, vendors and processors including micro and small enterprises working in the sector at the national level. For this purpose, a National Fisheries Digital Platform (NFDP) will be created and all the stakeholders will be mobilized to register on it. They will be encouraged to do so through providing financial incentives. The NFDP will serve multiple functions including disbursement of financial incentives. It is also proposed to undertake activities such as training and extension support, improving financial literacy, facilitating project preparation and documentation through financial support, reimbursing the processing fee and such other charges, if any and strengthening of existing fisheries cooperative societies.
b. Component 1-B: Facilitating adoption of aquaculture insurance: It is proposed to facilitate creation of appropriate insurance product and to cover at least 1 lakh hectare of aquaculture farms during project period to provide the scale of operation. Further, it is proposed to provide onetime incentive to the willing farmers against purchase of insurance with farm size of 4 hectares of water spread area and less. The 'onetime incentive' will be at the rate of 40% of the cost of premium subject to a limit of Rs.25000 per hectare of water spread area of the aquaculture farm. The maximum incentive payable to single farmer will be Rs.1,00,000 and maximum farm size eligible for incentive is 4 hectares of water spread area. For more intensive form of aquaculture other than farms such as cage culture, Recirculatory Aquaculture System (RAS), bio-floc, raceways, etc. the incentive payable is 40% of premium. Maximum incentive payable is 1 lakh and the maximum unit size eligible will be of 1800 m . The aforesaid benefit of 'onetime incentive' will be provided for aquaculture insurance purchased for one crop only i.e. one crop cycle. SC, ST and Women beneficiaries would be provided an additional incentive @ 10% of the incentive payable for General Categories. This is expected to create a robust market for aquaculture insurance products and enable the insurance companies to come up with attractive insurance products in future. c. Component 2: Supporting microenterprises to improve fisheries sector value chain
efficiencies:
This component seeks to improve value chain efficiencies in fishery sector through a system of performance grants with associated analytics and awareness campaigns. It is proposed to incentivise microenterprises to reengage in production, creation and maintenance of jobs with priority for women and to enhance value chain efficiencies through provisions of performance grants within selected value chains under a set of measurable parameters.
The scale of performance grant and the criteria for providing performance grants are indicated below:
i. The performance Grant for a Microenterprise shall not exceed 25% of the total investment or Rs.35 lakhs, whichever is lower, for General Category and 35% of total investment or Rs.45 lakhs, whichever is lower, for SC, ST and Women owned microenterprises.ii. Performance Grant for Village Level Organizations and Federations of SHGs, FFPOs and Cooperatives shall not exceed 35% of total investment or Rs.200 lakhs, whichever is lower. iii. The total investment for the purpose above (i, ii & iii) shall consist of expenditure incurred on capital investments made on new plant and machinery, equipment including technical civil/electrical works and associated infrastructure, transport and distribution infrastructure, energy efficient devices including Renewal Energy devices, technology interventions, such other interventions leading to improvement in value chain efficiency; and salary bills for additional jobs created in the year of application made under the scheme.