Paragraph typing link: https://unicodepoint.net/typing/mock-test/english-17

Australia is a fascinating continent on earth. Its Size is twice the

size of India and just under three-quarters of the Size of Europe.

Nearly four fifths of the country is dry and flat. Ayers Rock rises

from the centre of the continent. It is 335 meters high and eight

kilometres around. The rock never looks exac

unico
dep

oin
t.n

ettly the same,

because it continuously changes colour with the movement of the

sun. Its colour is fiery red at dawn, golden- yellow at noon and

deep purple at dusk. Three of every five Australians live in the six

large cities, each distinct in Style. The oldest, largest and most

effervescent is Sydney. More than three million people live in this

gay and excited city. The major source of Australian riches is the

Outback. Here are raised most of the sheep and cattle that make

Australia the World's leading exporter of wool and beet. In a year,

the average grazier can expect approximate income of Rs. 75

lakhs. Medical help for the isolated outback stations is provided by

the Royal Flying Doctor service. Subscribers of this service are

furnished With transceiver radios and large chests containing

about 100 numbered medicines. People suffering from illness can

radio to a medical centre to prescribe medicine from the chest. In

an emergency case, doctor or nurse lilies out in an ambulance

Page 1/2



Paragraph typing link: https://unicodepoint.net/typing/mock-test/english-17

plane to treat the patient or to bring him back to a hospital. The

radio is also used to convey telegrams and personal messages.

Schooling system 1s also very unique there. The hours

between9.30 a.m. to 3.00 p.m. at the radio centres are devoted to

another vital service the School of the Air -w

unico
dep

oin
t.n

ethich provides

education to the children. Homework and examinations are posted

to the centre tor correction. Once a year, parents take their

children there to meet teachers and class-mates. A nation-wide

government radio network broadcasts in 45 languages. And if a

foreigner has a question, the national telephone interpreter service

will give him the answer in his own tongue. All Australians are

blessed with such an abundance of natural resources that citizens

have nick named their homeland, "The Lucky Country. "It's mineral

wealth includes 25 per cent of the globe's known bauxite reserves,

8% uranium, 20% of its nickel supply and great quantities of coal,

iron, lead, zinc silver and manganese. The oil wells in Bass Strait

in the South-east corner of the. Continent, supply 70 per cent of

Australia's petroleum needs. Diamonds have been found in the

Kimererly district. How much more wealth is hidden in the soil, no

one really knows.

Page 2/2