Launch of Framework for Voluntary Carbon Market in Agriculture Sector and Accreditation
Protocol of Agroforestry Nurseries
Focus to be on solutions as well as benefits for farmers Union Agriculture Minister Shri Munda
Union Minister of Agriculture & Farmers’ Welfare and Tribal Affairs, Shri Arjun Munda launched the Framework for Voluntary Carbon Market in Agriculture Sector and Accreditation Protocol of Agroforestry Nurseries in Delhi today. Secretary Shri Manoj Ahuja, Secretary of DARE and Director General of Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) Dr. Himanshu Pathak, Senior officials of Central and State Ministries and Various Organizations related to agriculture were present on the occasion, while many stakeholders also joined the programme virtually.In his address, Shri Munda said that the Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare prepared a framework to promote Voluntary Carbon Market (VCM) in the agricultural sector of the country with a view to encourage small and medium farmers to avail benefits of carbon credit. Introducing farmers to the carbon market will not only benefit them but also accelerate the adoption of environmentfriendly agricultural practices. He requested full cooperation from the concerned ministries of the Centre and the States and other concerned organizations to promote the carbon market in the interest of farmers. He said that work should be done in this direction in collaboration with the farmers of the southern areas, in a manner convenient for them and along with the solution; there is a need to focus its benefits on our farmers. This is the first step in which we want to ensure everyone's participation. Global challenges like global warming are in front of all of us; hence we have to move ahead with caution. He asked ICAR to play an active role in this direction and do good work in a right manner.Shri Munda said that the agriculture sector in the country is making an important contribution to the economy and livelihood of crores of people. 54.6% of the country's workforce is engaged in agriculture and allied sectors’ activities. The share of agriculture sector in GDP is 18.6%, while the sown area is 139.3 million hectares, out of the total geographical area of the country. Keeping this importance in view, the Ministry has taken several steps under the leadership of Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi for sustainable development. Shri Munda said that the Accreditation Protocol of Agroforestry Nurseries will strengthen the institutional arrangements for production and certification of planting material on a large scale to promote agroforestry in the country. He asked all the stakeholders to adopt it so that quality planting material can provide assured returns and the objectives and goals of the National Agroforestry Policy can be achieved. He also urged for proper use of natural resources. Shri Munda said our Prime Minister Shri Modi is very sensitive towards the development of agricultural sector and climate change, and under his leadership we are fully committed to solve the problems.