Paragraph typing link: https://unicodepoint.net/typing/mock-test/english-55

The Central government on Wednesday told the Supreme Court

that it has set up a Committee of Experts headed by former apex

court judge B.N. Srikrishna to study various aspects of data

protection in India and to suggest a draft data protection bill. A five

judge constitution bench comprising Chief Justice

unico
dep

oin
t.n

et Dipak Misra,

Justice A.K. Sikri, Justice Amitava Roy, Justice A.M.Khanwilkar

and Justice Mohan M. Shantanagoudar was told that Justice

Srikrishna committee has been asked to make specific

suggestions for consideration by the government on principles for

data protection in India. Addressing the constitution bench,

Additional Solicitor General Tushar Mehta said that after the report

comes into being, there is a possibility that a law regulating data

protection will be passed. Meanwhile, the bench asked both social

media site Facebook and instant messaging app WhatsApp to file

affidavits stating what part of the data of their users they are

sharing with third parties under their new privacy regime.

Appearing for WhatsApp, senior counsel Kapil Sibal told the court

that they were only sharing four things with the third parties-the

user's telephone number, the type of the device being used, its

registration and the last time when the user accessed the app. As

Page 1/2



Paragraph typing link: https://unicodepoint.net/typing/mock-test/english-55

the court said that it would record the statement made by Sibal on

sharing of data, senior counsel Arvind Datar, appearing for

Facebook, seemed reluctant and at that stage, the court asked

both WhatsApp and Facebook to file affidavits. Directing the listing

of the matter on November 20 after both have filed 

unico
dep

oin
t.n

ettheir affidavits,

the court in its order said: "Be it clarified, if the assertions made in

the affidavit would not require any kind of intervention by this

Court, this Court may not pass any interim order." Assuring the

court that WhatsApp was not looking into the data of its users,

Sibal said it was entitled on to do what it wanted, including

business, on its digital platform. As he told the constitution bench

that data sharing was too complex an issue for the judges to

understand and decide, Datar also said that the whole issue was

"complex" and requires legislative intervention since it is a

"multifaceted matter". The court is hearing a plea by petitioners

Karmanya Singh Sareen and Shreya Sethi who have challenged

the Delhi High Court's September 23, 2016 order allowing

WhatsApp to roll out its new privacy policy but stopping it from

sharing the data of its users collected up to September 25, 2016,

with Facebook or any other related company.

Page 2/2