WTO negotiation session on Agriculture held at ongoing Abu Dhabi Ministerial Conference-13
India makes strong and compelling argument to finalize permanent solution to Public Stockholding and deliver this outcome at MC13, as this remains pending for 11 years
The WTO negotiation session on Agriculture took place in the afternoon of 27 February in the ongoing Abu Dhabi Ministerial Conference-13.
In this session, India made a strong and compelling argument to finalize the permanent solution to Public Stockholding (PSH) and deliver this outcome at MC13, as this has been pending for 11 years. India recalled the three mandates on PSH from the Bali Ministerial of 2013, the General Council decision of 2014 and the Nairobi Ministerial decision of 2015.
India argued that the focus should not be narrowed down to the trade interests of exporting countries only, the real concern is the food security and livelihood of people. India emphasized that without a permanent solution on PSH, the most critical and long-pending mandated issue at the WTO, developing countries’ fight against hunger cannot be won.
India highlighted that the significance this issue was so high that more than 80 countries representing more than 61% of the world’s population from the G33 group of countries, Africa, Caribbean and Pacific Group (ACP) and the African Groups have co-sponsored a proposal on this subject. India also recalled the vast differences in the actual per-farmer domestic support provided by different countries, as notified to WTO. Some developed countries provide subsidies which are 200 times than the subsidies provided by the developing countries. It was the membership’s duty to ensure a level playing field in international agriculture trade for millions of low-income or resourcepoor farmers.
In the overall reform process, India reiterated the preference for adopting a sequential approach. First and foremost, the permanent solution to the PSH has to be delivered. After that, it is important to protect the treaty-embedded Special and Differential Treatment provision in the Agreement on Agriculture. India stated that any derogation in this regard would be unacceptable. After that, if any discussion on reduction of domestic support commitments take place, the process should start with eliminating subsidies for countries who provide massive subsidies on a per capita basis.